>> Bianca: Took a little
deep dive into link list and
we're gonna circle back to Tree's.
All right,
let's take a look at our tree here.
So what is the main difference
between our tree here and
a link list that we are implementing?
>> Male: Each node has two references.
>> Bianca: Yeah, so instead of just having
one maybe .next, we have multiple,
in this case we have two.
But trees could be general,
you can have like quad trees, so
you can have a tree that has no
specified number of children.
So like one can have three, one can
have one, one could have a million.
You know, probably not super useful,
but that would be like a general tree.
What else?
>> Bianca: What's the same?
>> Male: Yeah,
that is now called the root.
>> Bianca: Yeah, so
we have a little bit of
different vocabulary.
The root is the same as our head, totally.
What do we call our tail?
>> Male: Leaves.
>> Bianca: Leaves,
can have multiple leaves, right?
>> Male: Mm-hm.
>> Bianca: But just one root.
>> Bianca: Cool, anything else?
>> Male: Do nodes hold references to their
parents in the tree?
>> Bianca: Usually not,
yeah.
>> Bianca: Cool, so
one other tidbit about trees is that
it's different than a link list.
A link list can be circular, so a link
list could actually point to itself,
and that would be an okay thing.
Where trees are not allowed
to have a circular loop.
So this, for
example 13 couldn't connect to 12,
that would be an incorrect
implementation of a tree.
Yup, cool.
What else did I want to say about that?
Yeah, so we hold references,
usually from parent to child,
similar to our single link, it's just one
direction, except we have multiple nodes.
And so back to our pseudocode,
>> Bianca: How is our constructor gonna
be different?
>> Bianca: Maybe we
can just copy what we have.
>> Bianca: And
then we can put it here.
>> Male: So
the node, instead of this.next for
a node, you could do this, children and
set up to an empty array?
>> Bianca: Yeah, yeah.
So we wanna have a collection of children.
And for a general tree,
it could be an amount of children, right.
We're not creating rules right now,
but think about, if you did need to
create rules with that it tells well,
just in the back of your mind, cool.
>> Bianca: What else will be different?
Would we have a tail, nope.
>> Male: Change
head to root.
>> Bianca: Yep.
>> Bianca: Great.
>> Bianca: Cool,
maybe want to add a node.
>> Bianca: What's the main
difference here for adding a node?
>> Male: Well, we need more information
because with the link list tallies, or you
could assume it always goes on the end.
But because we have branches here,
we need to know where it goes.
>> Bianca: Mm-hm, yeah.
>> Male: Is that
it?
>> Bianca: Yeah, but
what about through the case
where we have to loop?
Link list it took us a second to
figure out what kind of loop, but
what if we needed to loop through,
we call this traversing
a tree.
>> Bianca: That
presents a new kind of
complication as well, right.
Cool, awesome, so that's a cliff hanger.
Cuz tomorrow we're gonna be
traversing trees all over the place.
And we're gonna hope into just
creating your tree data structure.
There's some exercises in there as well.
>> Bianca: Let's check it
out.
>> Bianca: But the last two,
the searching.
>> Bianca: You can see the note here.
Hold off on DFS, and BFS,
cuz we haven't covered that yet.
>> Bianca: Unless you know it and
you just want to do it, go for it.
We'll be doing it a few different times
for a few different data structures.
>> Bianca: Cool, are you ready?
So now, armed with our knowledge,
we're going to implement a tree.